---
layout: default
title: John Barnette
---

## Skills

C, C++, Objective-C, Ruby, JavaScript, Java, C#, Erlang, Perl, SQL, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, XSD, JVM, CLR, Unix, Windows, Mac OS X, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Rails, JBoss, Cocoa, Git, Subversion, Perforce, CVS/RCS, Agile development, Technical project management.

## Jobs

### 2007 &mdash; Now: Lead Software Engineer, AdReady

Lead software engineer on a large Rails app, shepherded from 1.x to
2.x. Extracted a fair amount of work into open source projects,
including features for Rails (2.0 fixtures, timestamped migrations)
and RubyGems (development dependencies). Designed a complex
subdomain/skinning system and capabilities model. Refactored code that
would make most engineers run for the hills (and survived).

### 2005 &mdash; 2007: Lead Software Engineer, ODS Software

Technical and architecture lead on a large CRM/warehouse
management/financial/ transactional application for the lumber and
building materials industry. Tackled and conquered serious internal
challenges, including a lack of process and quality engineering and an
inexperienced development team. The product is now developed using a
fast, iterative process, with good source control and build systems,
and a vastly more knowledgeable/better trained development team.

### 2002 &mdash; 2005: Senior Software Engineer, Polycom

Senior architecture and development work on a carrier-class 11 million
LoC C++/Java application. Thought leader and advocate for agile and
test-ﬁrst development. Architected and led development of a C#/.NET
distributed monitoring and operator assistance application with
stringent performance and bandwidth requirements. Architecture and
development of a next-generation J2EE-based platform for media
conferencing and collaboration applications. Participated in
signiﬁcant company-wide architectural and strategic
decisions. Championed lightweight, pragmatic development processes,
defect tracking, and continuous integration.

### 1999 &mdash; 2002: Senior Software Engineer, XOR

Client contact (both technical and LOB) during presales and
architecture/design discussions. Designed and led development of large
Java and Perl web applications (Weblogic, Websphere). Internal
champion of lightweight, pragmatic development process and code
sharing/modular development. Executive liaison and general technical
go-to guy.

### 1998 &mdash; 1999: Software Engineer, Exabyte

Developed high-performace SCSI drivers and software for large-scale
tape/data storage libraries. Developed remote tape library control
capabilities and user interface. Developed web management portal for
information storage and library management.

## Extracurricular

I have a [software engineering blog](http://jbarnette.com). I
contribute code to Rails, RubyGems, Rubinius, and lots of other
projects. I keep all my own open source work on
[GitHub](http://github.com/jbarnette). I've presented at
[RubyConf](http://rubyconf.org), and I'm an active member of
[Seattle.rb](http://seattlerb.org).

